# CS-340
Final project using MongoDB, pyMongo, Pandas, Plotly, and Dash


How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

  When I create and work on programs I like to maintain some level of a similar style through the program in terms of variable naming, function naming and well organized code. I think it is important to go back and comment go on the same day it is written so that an outsider can quickly and easily determine exactly what the code does. Maintaining modular code that works with or without other sections of code (to the maximum extent possible) is also important to make programs more adaptable and maintainable. In terms of the CRUD module from project one, it helps to build one aspect of a program and refine it prior to moving on to another section. Since the CRUD module became the base for almost every assignment and the second project it was even more critical that it worked in entirity before moving onto more complex tasks that were built on top of it. In the future I could make minor modifications to the code to have similar functionality in other Mongo projects, and add to the module as needed for increased functionality. This allows me to get potentially dozens of uses out of code I only had to write once. Even if the only thing the code is used for after this is as a reference to build more complex CRUD operations in other projects the code written for this assignment (and the knowledge gained while building it) will continue to pay dividends for years to come.


How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

As a computer scientist I think it is important to approach a problem by first understanding it, then researching it, then finally building a solution. As a younger programmer I often wasted hours because I did not adequetly research my problems. I still remember building (effectively) a csv module for writing files and doing hours upon hours of work, just to later find out there was a Python Library specifically built for this problem, in the standard library and that this module for CSVs handled problems faster and with less overhead than what I had created. While my approach in that example was custom fitted for my problem, it lack the modularity to really be useful outside of its original purpose. In the future, I will likely work to understand the needs of the database before I build it. If it were not for this class for example I would likely not know anything about pyMongo and how useful it is when incorporated into middleware. Recreating even a fraction of the capabilites of pyMongo would be time consuming and likely counterproductive as a whole. 


What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer Scientist work to understand complex problems and provide appropriate solutions to those problems. Some even work to understand problems that few have encountered, with those solutions sometimes resulting in entire generations of programmers and Computer Scientists never having to encounter them at all. Work like this can help streamline solutions that companies and organizations have. Rather than reviewing and filtering through a database/Excel document themselves they can quickly and efficiently find exactly what they need. This information can then be tailored for their needs, allowing them to find more efficient methods of completing their tasks with the data available. For example, in this project there were hundred of breeds of dogs mixed in with dozens of other species. For a human to parse and examine each entry and narrow down their queries to even a handful of animals would take days or even weeks without the help of the Computer Science field. With this project it only takes a few minutes to do the same. 

